


Roman numerals use _letters_ from the Latin alphabet,
as you know, instead of some other symbols; you're more
familiar with the use of symbols specifically for math
rather than using letters of the alphabet.  One, two,
three, four, five - these are special 'number shapes'
that you typically use for math, but you are also
familiar with the Roman system which uses letters.

You might have seen the year of something's production
credited as MCMLXXXVIII instead of 1988, for instance.
You might have seen a pope, or some royal, known as
'the third' or 'the sixteenth' using Roman numerals
after his name.

Often, these numerals have a _line_ draw above and
below them - the line helps you distinguish them from
letters of a werd, or of the name of the pope [not
that you would likely attempt to pronounce the three-I's
on the end of someone's name, any more than you would
attempt to pronounce the 'Jr.' on the end of some
senator's plaque]. But, if you're reading and writing
_in Latin_, people might find it more helpful to have
a quick way to distinguish the numbers from the werds.

Latin isn't the only language to do this - there have
been several languages that used letters of their
alphabet as numbers, and simply distinguished them
with an over-line or some such indicator. Alright?
That shouldn't seem odd to you.

IF we look at the Roman numeral four, as an example,
it looks like: IV  Now, while those are letters, and
you _could_ try to pronounce 'iv' that's definitely
not an English werd.  Infact, trying to combine
any of the Roman numerals [I,V,X,L,C,D,M] into an
actual official English werd proves to be rather
difficult.  'DID' and 'MILL' for instace, _do_ form
English werds, but - and this is important here - they
do NOT form valid Roman numerals.

That is to say, while 'D' and 'I' and 'D' again are
all Roman numerals, the combination _DID_ does not
represent a numerical value in the Roman system.
They are simply the numbers 500, 1, and 500 - which
might add up to 1001, but that's NOT how you create
the value '1001' using the Roman system.  You see
what I mean? Yes, it might be the case that the
English phrase 'I did mill' consists entirely of
letters that are used as numerals in the Roman
system, they aren't actual values [only the 'I'
is correctly the value for one]. In the exact same
way that you know 5001500 does not represent the
value of 'one thousand and one'; that's simply
not how you write 1001 using that number system.

If someone were to tell you something about
'adding up' the values of the Roman numerals of
a werd, you ought to immediately know that Roman
numerals don't werk that way; you might even
quickly mention that 'four' is 'IV' and 'six'
is 'VI' and just 'adding them up' is SO WRONG
that you'll get the value of six for _both
numbers_. Most of the time, almost every time,
when you see the letters of Roman numerals in
a werd, they do NOT correctly form a Roman
numeral, and there are almost no werds in
English that are, themselves, a valid Roman
numeral.

There's likely to be a werd that has some
_part of it_ that is a valid number, like
'give' has an 'IV' in the middle of it;
there might be a way in which you could
associate the werd 'give' with 'G4E' but,
see how that's nonsensical?  You might
have the werd 'skate' associated with
'SK8' in that it has the _sound_ of the
number 'eight' in it, but not the actual
number - you often see 'SK8' but you
rarely see 'FR8' which would be associated
with 'freight' from the the sound _and_
the number. Though you know that there
really isn't the number value 8 in skating.

You might use the sound association of
number-sounding-values in werds to make
some kind of comment on the human condition;
if someone has a large forehead, you might
say she has a 'five-head' or if someone
got sick from gorging at a buffet, you
might say 'she ate so much she _nined_!'

But the most important thing to know is that
English _does NOT have this_; there are
not numbers in the werds of English, because
English is not written using the characters
of its number system. Ok? You don't make
numbers using letters in English; you can
make associations between werds and numbers
because of sounds, or whatever, but the
actual number '3' does not ever appear in
a werd ... _unlike Latin_.  You see?
There ARE languages where actual numbers
appear in werds - let's think about those
for a second.

There are rules with how to form valid
numerical values using a letters-as-numbers
system; again, not all letter combinations
of the numerical-letters will form a value,
and very few full-werds themselves will actually
be a valid number. As an example, the English
werd 'MIX' is a completely valid Roman numeral,
and a full werd.  It would be as though the
number 1009 could appear in the middle of a
sentence, but we would know to pronounce it 'mix'
because we know that it's intended to be a
werd, and not a number.

But, some people would be interested in the idea
that '1009' just appeared in the middle of a
sentence, and even more especially if that sentence
was written in something that was held in very high
esteem, or considered to be mysterious, or holy,
or that type of thing.

If one of the Rules of Our Nation says "Don't
mix the kinds!" there would be people who think
that '1009' had a special meaning regarding that
rule - whatever that might be - even if there
wasn't intended association when The Founders
made up that rule, ok? You see?

Ok, now think about this: you know how it's
funny to say "she has a five-head" ?  The kinds
of people who write things, and the kinds of
people who are so good at writing things that
they write the kinds of things that _lots of
people_ like to read, or think is important
to read, are often the kinds of people who
enjoy saying things like 'five-head'.  They
think it's cool, or funny, or creative, or
interesting; they might actually write something
that intentionally includes innuendo.  "I can
think of 1009 ways to combine those things!"
If you know that 'MIX' is '1009', and you're
making a rule that tells people not to mix
the kinds, you might say "There are a thousand
and nine ways to combine things, every
one of which is forbidden!"  Or some such thing;
you see what I mean? It would be even better
if the innuendo had a closer realtionship,
like "there are 1009 ways to _wrongly_ combine
Roman numerals".

Alright, the point is, Hebrew does use letters
for numbers, there are possible full werds
that make numbers, and people do use them
intentionally ... and it's also incredibly rare.
It's NOT like every werd actually forms a valid
number, or that you can legitimately find the
use of this in everything; when you _start_ looking
for, and finding this, in everything, that's when
you know you're wrong.  It's a real thing, and it's
rare, and it's typically humorous.

The Yiddish expression:

"We have a million things to do right now,
_in order_, from one to a million; you are
talking about number six thousand two hundred
fifty one ... and we are on number _eight_"

is even more poignant if you know what the
letters of the number 6251 spell in Hebrew.

You know what you're much more likely to see?
The _opposite_ of this.  It's far more likely
for someone to _not_ use the systemically
'correct' way if writing 15 or 16 in Hebrew
numerals _because_ they spell something
meaningful.  In that, it takes a lot of
creativity, and effort, and special situations,
to come up with an intentional use of a werd
as a number, it's incredibly easy to just
refrain from writing '15' using the letters
that would spell something you don't want to
spell - that's easy, everyone does that all
the time: just don't write '15' when you mean
fifteen, change it to '9+6'

