
think of something that gets better when you
add _rape_ to it

something that IMPROVES with rape ...

you got it? no?

like, "what, plus rape, equals something alright?"

nothing?

I don't mean things like 'a frat party' which is
probably only better for _the rapist_; even people who
were at the party aren't going to think:

- man, that party sucked
- yeah, but did you hear? some girl got raped
- oh word? hmm, I guess it was actually pretty cool, then

think about something good, something good to start with;
you're eating a bag of chips, "mmm, this is delicious, but
I really wish I were being raped right now"

chips plus rape, does not equal alright - even REALLY good
chips are going to be _completely ruined_ by forced anal

- these chips are a nine and a half ... but then,
  you know, with the rape, it went down to only an eight
  
no; no - rape is going to bring the experience down more
than that

there's nothing _good_ which is improved with rape, basically

in that equation, nothing "good, plus rape, equals alright"

okay, fine - if that's the way you're gonna be, maybe there's
something _bad_ that can be improved by rape

say you're drowning - "aaaargh, oh no, I can't swim, I'm
gonna drown ... if only I were being raped"

also doesn't werk

you see what I mean?  I can't really think of a list of
things that I don't enjoy which you could convince me were
better if, also, rape

now - you think I'm making this up; but I live on this
planet, and if you do too, you can't have missed the
preponderance of people trying to _convince other people_
that something they don't like would be ok if you just
added rape

- I'm opposed to abortion in all instances
- really? even in cases of _rape_?
- what?!
- I said, what if I rape the girl, wouldn't it be
  okay then?
- I don't like rape _either_, mother fucker!

is there anything which someone who considered that
thing to be a crime, would think was alright if a
rape was involved?

I believe it should be illegal to park anywhere
on the street, in a beach town ...
except in cases of rape or incest

- excuse me, sir, there's no parking allowed here
- it's ok, officer, I'm vaginally penetrating my
  daughter
- oh, well, go right ahead

and what-the-hell with _incest_?!

why incest?

what kinda hill-billies are trying to tell you that
incest makes things better?!!

- aagh, this moonshine is _terrible_!
- what?! my cousin and I made that at our _wedding_
- ooooh, well then

these people are openly telling you they _hate_
abortion, and that they think it should be a crime,
ANd that they think it should be a crime in every
possible instance; there's a really good chance
this person is leading a devout and spiritual
life, and thinks abortion is equivalent to murder

and you're saying:

"would it be ok for me to break into your house
if, afterwards, I molested your dog?"

what the fuck?!

_slavery_ ... should that be legal in cases of
rape and incest?

I know, I know, "slavery is the _best part_ of
rape and incest" - but, you see what I'm saying?

just cuz it's on a t-shirt doesn't make it _true_

remember, I have t-shirts for sale in the front

click here, now!

ski pads!  wear your ski pads




