
""
As hypothesized, skilled liars used more first-person pronouns than unskilled
liars. However, with the results from role being that liars use more first-person
pronouns we would have actually expected skilled liars to use less. This is an
important finding because it is the only variable in this study that distinguishes truthtellers from liars even when liars are successful. A similar relationship was found
with conjunctions. The findings confirmed the hypothesis that liars would use more
conjunctions, yet skilled liars used more conjunctions as well

""

this is to say that _skilled liars_ typically resemble
truthtellers - such a result should not be surprising to
you, nor would it be of interest academically - again,
the idea that extremely-skilled liars use language
similar to truth-tellers should not be shocking; this
would only have 'confirmational' interest academically;
again, the discovery that "people who are really good
at lying talk like people who are telling the truth"
shouldn't surprise you

however, the experimentally confirmed finding that
skilled liars talk like people who aren't lying isn't
_helping_ anyone pinpoint liars - you see what I mean?
so, you've done a study wherein you determine, "hey,
look at his guy who is really good at lying! his
talking cannot be distinguished, by analysis, from
someone telling the truth!" isn't going to help
identify liars

yeah, it would be an obvious prior suspicion that
people who are really good at lying talk like they're
telling the truth - and, _so what_, you just proved
it to be accurate - that isn't useful in identifying
_skilled_ liars

it's already easy to determine a liar who is REALLY BAD
at lying; that's a given - the analysis has that down:
you suck at lying? easy. we can find that out fast

but what happens when you are incredibly _good_ at lying?
well, you tend to talk in a way that analysis would
say you are _telling the truth_; seems tautological,
right? "this really good liar talks like he's telling
the truth" once more, that helps no one

but what _would_ help? wherein 'help' means "identify
a skilled liar from someone telling the truth"

importantly, this experiment _has_ discovered
such a thing - and more importantly, it has discovered
such things as can be analyised _in realy time_, using
_already existing tools of analysis_

there's nothing new here to invent, or impliment;
you just have to use your analysis to look for what
this paper has discovered...

and _what_, again, exactly, did this paper discover?

well, that there _is_ a difference between telling
the truth and lying really well: your pronoun and
conjunction use will resemble _lying_

the hypothesis from literature is that skilled liars
would not resemble _liars_, but would instead resemble
truth tellers; infact, they don't - skilled liars use
pronouns and conjuctions as though they are _lying_

what does it mean to be "p < 0.05" or "pee less-than
zero point zero five" sure that someone is a liar?
it means that you'll be "pretty much right" that the
person you're talking to is a skilled liar  - yeah,
you might be wrong once in every twenty interrogations,
but so what? you're only 'accidentally' killing
a small fraction of honest truth tellers; it was
their fault for being a suspect to being with!



