

don't use the parts which are nebulous, or confusing,
or ambiguous to inform your understanding of what is
clear

don't appropriate the unusual to mystify the common

use your understanding of the obvious to ameliorate
your confusion from the nebulous

understand what is clear and concise and use that to
inform your understanding of what is confusing, and
try to eliminate the confusion

don't start with what is atypical and project that
on to what is typical

there's a guy riding along on a donkey, and the donkey
talks to him

ok, how many other talking donkies are there in this
story? none? oh, ok - well, what about in the rest of
the entire book? in all the other stories, are there
any talking donkies? no? hmm - well, are there any
other talking animals? nope. alright then, so this is
the singular instance of a talking animal? yes, basically.
well, is this the only one or not?

there's another part where a 'snake' talks, but he's
not yet a snake

what do you mean?

there's a 'snake' that can talk, and he also has _legs_;
he's not really a snake at first - he has arms and legs
and can walk around and talk to other people; he's
nothing like what you call a snake - eventually,
he gets punished by being turned into what you would
recognize as a snake, and he can't talk anymore

oh, so - that's it? that's the only other example of
a 'talking animal' in the entire text?

yup

and he's not even really a snake at first, but then once
he is a snake he actually _can't_ talk anymore?

right

oh, ok, so then, yeah, I get what you're saying; this
talking donkey, is he always a donkey?

yeah, the talking donkey is different - he's a donkey,
and actual donkey that you would call a donkey, and
a guy is riding around on the donkey, and then the
donkey talks to him

so this donkey has the power of speech?

also, not exactly - the donkey only talks once; he
sez one thing and that's it - he's never spoken before,
and he'll never speak again - he just sez the one
thing, one time, to the guy who is riding him around

are there other animals in the stories?

yes, LOTS of them

there are?

yeah - there are lots and lots of animals in the rest
of the stories

and none of them talk?

none of them talk - they are all just regular animals
exactly like what you would recognize as animals

are any of them magical? I mean is, do any of the other
animals have any non-animals powers that aren't talking?
like, are there pigs that fly?

nope - nothing like that - every other animal is just
exactly like any animal that you have known; they don't
have any super powers or special abilities

hmm, so it's just this one donkey that has the power of
speech?

does he, though?

well, you _just said_ ...

I know, but what I'm saying is, that donkey does not
'have the power of speech' the way you normally mean
when you say 'has the power of speech' - that donkey
never talks at all, until the moment he sez one thing,
and then never talks again

oh, I see what you mean - well, what about the guy?

what about him?

is he magical, or powerful, or peculiar in any way?

he's just a guy

does he have wings? or a horn? is he a giant? is he
from outerspace, or from some nether-realm?

nope - none of that

cuz, that's a popular thing in stories from the region

it sure is; but this guy is just like a regular guy

does he have eight arms?

nope

is he purple?

no

does he have the head of an elephant?

nope - nothing like that

what about the other characters in the story? are any
of them like that

not-a-one; literally every single person in the story is
just a regular-ole person, normal size, usual number of
arms and legs

what about in all the other stories?

in the entire book, let's see - there's that guy who
turns into a snake I told you about, and there's another
guy who is a 'giant'

he's a giant

yeah - he's just a regular shaped guy - no wings, no
horns, no power of flight, no magic powers, just is
really tall - you might try to consider that he's
a 'giant' in the metaphorical sense of his being a
really 'big deal' and 'important guy' but then it
specifically mentions his _height_, and he's very
very tall

besides being tall, is there anything else about him?

again, no - literally every other person in that story
is just a regular person